docs/validators/upgrades/v2.0-upgrade.md, before:

# Upgrade Guide v2.0

This document provides guidelines for node operators upgrading from Regen Ledger v1.0 to v2.0. For a general overview of the upgrade process, please refer to [Upgrade Overview](README.md).

*Update: A patch release (`v2.1.0`) was released soon-after the v2.0 upgrade. This document has been updated to use the `v2.1.0` as the upgrade binary rather than `v2.0.0`.*

## Upgrade Info

### Regen Ledger v2.0

- [Release Notes](https://github.com/regen-network/regen-ledger/releases/tag/v2.0.0)

### Regen Mainnet

- Upgrade Height: `3003343`

### Redwood Testnet

- Upgrade Height: `548703`

## Upgrade Guidelines

### Update Go

**Go `1.17` or later is required.**

For available downloads, see [Go Downloads](https://go.dev/dl/).

### Option 1: Using Cosmovisor

**Cosmovisor `v1.0` or later is required.**

The following instructions assume the `cosmovisor` binary is already installed and `cosmovisor` is set up as a systemd service. If this is not the case, please refer to [Using Cosmovisor](../get-started/using-cosmovisor.md) for instructions on how to install and set up `cosmovisor`.

::: warning Auto-Download Not Supported
The auto-download option is not supported in Cosmovisor v1.0 or later when upgrading from Regen Ledger v1.0 (which uses Cosmos SDK v0.42). Enabling the auto-download option will result in an error and a failed restart at the time of the upgrade.
:::

Build the upgrade binary (`v2.1.0`) from source:

```bash
cd regen-ledger
git fetch --all
git checkout v2.1.0
make build
```

Ensure the `regen` binary has been built:

```bash
./build/regen version
```

You should see the following:

```bash
v3.0.0
```

Create a `v2.0.0-upgrade` directory and copy the upgrade binary (`v2.1.0`) to the directory:

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/.regen/cosmovisor/upgrades/v2.0-upgrade/bin
cp ./build/regen $HOME/.regen/cosmovisor/upgrades/v2.0-upgrade/bin
```

At the proposed block height, `cosmovisor` will automatically stop the current binary (`v1.0.0`), set the upgrade binary as the current binary (`v2.1.0`), and then (depending on the cosmovisor settings) perform a backup and restart the node.

### Option 2: Without Cosmovisor

Using `cosmovisor` to perform the upgrade is not required. Node operators also have the option to manually update the `regen` binary at the time of the upgrade.

When the chain halts at the proposed upgrade height, stop the current process running `regen`.

Build the upgrade binary (`v2.1.0`) from source:

```bash
cd regen-ledger
git fetch --all
git checkout v2.1.0
make install
```

Ensure the `regen` binary has been updated:

```bash
regen version
```

You should see the following:

```bash
v2.1.0
```

Restart the process running `regen`.

Commit message:

docs: update validator upgrade guides (#1666)
Co-authored-by: Ryan Christoffersen <12519942+ryanchristo@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/validators/upgrades/v2.0-upgrade.md, after:

# Upgrade Guide v2.0

This document provides guidelines for node operators upgrading from Regen Ledger v1.0 to v2.0. For a general overview of the upgrade process, please refer to [Upgrade Overview](README.md).

:::warning IBC Patch Release v2.1
A patch release (`v2.1.0`) was released soon-after the v2.0 upgrade. This document has been updated to use the `v2.1.0` as the upgrade binary rather than `v2.0.0`.
:::

## Upgrade Info

### Regen Ledger v2.0

- [Release Notes](https://github.com/regen-network/regen-ledger/releases/tag/v2.0.0)

### Regen Mainnet

- Upgrade Height: `3003343`

### Redwood Testnet

- Upgrade Height: `548703`

## Upgrade Guidelines

### Update Go

**Go `1.17` or later is required.**

For available downloads, see [Go Downloads](https://go.dev/dl/).

### Option 1: Using Cosmovisor

**Cosmovisor `v1.0` or later is required.**

The following instructions assume the `cosmovisor` binary is already installed and `cosmovisor` is set up as a systemd service. If this is not the case, please refer to [Using Cosmovisor](../get-started/using-cosmovisor.md) for instructions on how to install and set up `cosmovisor`.

::: warning Auto-Download Not Supported
The auto-download option is not supported in Cosmovisor v1.0 or later when upgrading from Regen Ledger v1.0 (which uses Cosmos SDK v0.42). Enabling the auto-download option will result in an error and a failed restart at the time of the upgrade.
:::

Build the upgrade binary (`v2.1.0`) from source:

```bash
cd regen-ledger
git fetch --all
git checkout v2.1.0
make build
```

Ensure the `regen` binary has been built:

```bash
./build/regen version
```

You should see the following:

```bash
v2.1.0
```

Create a `v2.0.0-upgrade` directory and copy the upgrade binary (`v2.1.0`) to the directory:

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/.regen/cosmovisor/upgrades/v2.0-upgrade/bin
cp ./build/regen $HOME/.regen/cosmovisor/upgrades/v2.0-upgrade/bin
```
Ensure the right `regen` binary has been placed in the directory:

```bash
$HOME/.regen/cosmovisor/upgrades/v2.0-upgrade/bin/regen version
```

You should see the following:

```bash
v2.1.0
```

At the proposed block height, `cosmovisor` will automatically stop the current binary (`v1.0.0`), set the upgrade binary as the current binary (`v2.1.0`), and then (depending on the cosmovisor settings) perform a backup and restart the node.

### Option 2: Without Cosmovisor

Using `cosmovisor` to perform the upgrade is not required. Node operators also have the option to manually update the `regen` binary at the time of the upgrade.

When the chain halts at the proposed upgrade height, stop the current process running `regen`.

Build the upgrade binary (`v2.1.0`) from source:

```bash
cd regen-ledger
git fetch --all
git checkout v2.1.0
make install
```

Ensure the `regen` binary has been updated:

```bash
regen version
```

You should see the following:

```bash
v2.1.0
```

Restart the process running `regen`.
