docs/validators/upgrades/v4.0-upgrade.md, before:

# Upgrade Guide v4.0

This document provides guidelines for node operators upgrading from Regen Ledger v3.0 to v4.0. For a general overview of the upgrade process, please refer to [Upgrade Overview](README.md).

*Update: A patch release (`v4.1.0`) was released soon-after the v4.0 upgrade. This document has been updated to use the `v4.1.0` as the upgrade binary rather than `v4.0.0`.*

## Upgrade Info

### Regen Ledger v4.0

- [Release Notes](https://github.com/regen-network/regen-ledger/releases/tag/v4.0.0)

### Regen Mainnet

- Upgrade Height: `6589400`

### Redwood Testnet

- Upgrade Height: `4828000`

## Upgrade Guidelines

### Update Go

**Go `1.18` or later is required.**

For available downloads, see [Go Downloads](https://go.dev/dl/).

### Option 1: Using Cosmovisor

**Cosmovisor `v1.0` or later is required.**

The following instructions assume the `cosmovisor` binary is already installed and `cosmovisor` is set up as a systemd service. If this is not the case, please refer to [Using Cosmovisor](../get-started/using-cosmovisor.md) for instructions on how to install and set up `cosmovisor`.

::: warning Auto-Download Not Recommended
Cosmovisor provides an auto-download option that prevents the need for the following steps in preparing for the upgrade. Although available to validators, this feature should only be used for non-validator nodes and validators should build the binary from source.
:::

Build the upgrade binary (`v4.1.0`) from source:

```bash
cd regen-ledger
git fetch --all
git checkout v4.1.0
make build
```

Ensure the `regen` binary has been built:

```bash
./build/regen version
```

You should see the following:

```bash
v4.1.0
```

Create a `v4.0.0` directory and copy the upgrade binary (`v4.1.0`) to the directory:

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/.regen/cosmovisor/upgrades/v4.0.0/bin
cp ./build/regen $HOME/.regen/cosmovisor/upgrades/v4.0.0/bin
```
Ensure the right `regen` binary has been placed in the directory:

```bash
$HOME/.regen/cosmovisor/upgrades/v4.0.0/bin/regen version
```

You should see the following:

```bash
v4.1.0
```

At the proposed block height, `cosmovisor` will automatically stop the current binary (`v3.0.0`), set the upgrade binary as the current binary (`v4.1.0`), and then (depending on the cosmovisor settings) perform a backup and restart the node.

### Option 2: Without Cosmovisor

Using `cosmovisor` to perform the upgrade is not required. Node operators also have the option to manually update the `regen` binary at the time of the upgrade.

When the chain halts at the proposed upgrade height, stop the current process running `regen`.

Build the upgrade binary (`v4.1.0`) from source:

```bash
cd regen-ledger
git fetch --all
git checkout v4.1.0
make install
```

Ensure the `regen` binary has been updated:

```bash
regen version
```

You should see the following:

```bash
v4.0.0
```

Restart the process running `regen`.

Commit message:

updated 4.1 guide to 4.1.5 patch release instructions

docs/validators/upgrades/v4.0-upgrade.md, after:

# Upgrade Guide v4.0

This document provides guidelines for node operators upgrading from Regen Ledger v3.0 to v4.0. For a general overview of the upgrade process, please refer to [Upgrade Overview](README.md).

*Update: A patch release (`v4.1.0`) was released soon-after the v4.0 upgrade. This document includes instructions on how to upgrade to the `v4.1.0` near the bottom.*

## Upgrade Info

### Regen Ledger v4.0

- [Release Notes](https://github.com/regen-network/regen-ledger/releases/tag/v4.0.0)

### Regen Mainnet

- Upgrade Height: `6589400`

### Redwood Testnet

- Upgrade Height: `4828000`

## Upgrade Guidelines

### Update Go

**Go `1.18` or later is required.**

For available downloads, see [Go Downloads](https://go.dev/dl/).

### Option 1: Using Cosmovisor

**Cosmovisor `v1.0` or later is required.**

The following instructions assume the `cosmovisor` binary is already installed and `cosmovisor` is set up as a systemd service. If this is not the case, please refer to [Using Cosmovisor](../get-started/using-cosmovisor.md) for instructions on how to install and set up `cosmovisor`.

::: warning Auto-Download Not Recommended
Cosmovisor provides an auto-download option that prevents the need for the following steps in preparing for the upgrade. Although available to validators, this feature should only be used for non-validator nodes and validators should build the binary from source.
:::

Build the upgrade binary (`v4.0.0`) from source:

```bash
cd regen-ledger
git fetch --all
git checkout v4.0.0
make build
```

Ensure the `regen` binary has been built:

```bash
./build/regen version
```

You should see the following:

```bash
v4.0.0
```

Create a `v4.0.0` directory and copy the upgrade binary (`v4.0.0`) to the directory:

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/.regen/cosmovisor/upgrades/v4.0.0/bin
cp ./build/regen $HOME/.regen/cosmovisor/upgrades/v4.0.0/bin
```
Ensure the right `regen` binary has been placed in the directory:

```bash
$HOME/.regen/cosmovisor/upgrades/v4.0.0/bin/regen version
```

You should see the following:

```bash
v4.0.0
```

At the proposed block height, `cosmovisor` will automatically stop the current binary (`v3.0.0`), set the upgrade binary as the current binary (`v4.1.0`), and then (depending on the cosmovisor settings) perform a backup and restart the node.

### Option 2: Without Cosmovisor

Using `cosmovisor` to perform the upgrade is not required. Node operators also have the option to manually update the `regen` binary at the time of the upgrade.

When the chain halts at the proposed upgrade height, stop the current process running `regen`.

Build the upgrade binary (`v4.0.0`) from source:

```bash
cd regen-ledger
git fetch --all
git checkout v4.0.0
make install
```

Ensure the `regen` binary has been updated:

```bash
regen version
```

You should see the following:

```bash
v4.0.0
```

Restart the process running `regen`.
