# Upgrade Guide v5.0

This document provides guidelines for node operators upgrading from Regen Ledger v4.1 to v5.0. For a general overview of the upgrade process, please refer to [Upgrade Overview](README.md).

## Upgrade Info

### Regen Ledger v5.0

- [Release Notes](https://github.com/regen-network/regen-ledger/releases/tag/v5.0.0)

### Regen Mainnet

- Upgrade Height: `TBD`

### Redwood Testnet

- Upgrade Height: `TBD`

## Upgrade Guidelines

### Update Go

**Go `1.19` or later is required.**

For available downloads, see [Go Downloads](https://go.dev/dl/).

::: warning Minimum Gas Prices Required
With Cosmos SDK v0.46, nodes are now required to set minimum gas prices. Please make sure `minimum-gas-prices` in `app.toml` is set to prevent the `regen` binary from throwing an error when restarting the node with the new binary.
:::

### Option 1: Using Cosmovisor

**Cosmovisor `v1.0` or later is required.**

The following instructions assume the `cosmovisor` binary is already installed and `cosmovisor` is set up as a systemd service. If this is not the case, please refer to [Using Cosmovisor](../get-started/using-cosmovisor.md) for instructions on how to install and set up `cosmovisor`.

::: warning Auto-Download Not Recommended
Cosmovisor provides an auto-download option that prevents the need for the following steps in preparing for the upgrade. Although available to validators, this feature should only be used for non-validator nodes and validators should build the binary from source.
:::

Build the upgrade binary (`v5.0.0`) from source:

```bash
cd regen-ledger
git fetch --all
git checkout v5.0.0
make build
```

Ensure the `regen` binary has been built:

```bash
./build/regen version
```

You should see the following:

```bash
v5.0.0
```

Create a `v5.0.0` directory and copy the upgrade binary (`v5.0.0`) to the directory:

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/.regen/cosmovisor/upgrades/v5.0.0/bin
cp ./build/regen $HOME/.regen/cosmovisor/upgrades/v5.0.0/bin
```
Ensure the right `regen` binary has been placed in the directory:

```bash
$HOME/.regen/cosmovisor/upgrades/v5.0.0/bin/regen version
```

You should see the following:

```bash
v5.0.0
```

At the proposed block height, `cosmovisor` will automatically stop the current binary (`v4.1.x`), set the upgrade binary as the current binary (`v5.0.0`), and then (depending on the cosmovisor settings) perform a backup and restart the node.

### Option 2: Without Cosmovisor

Using `cosmovisor` to perform the upgrade is not required. Node operators also have the option to manually update the `regen` binary at the time of the upgrade.

First Build the upgrade binary (`v5.0.0`) from source:

```bash
cd regen-ledger
git fetch --all
git checkout v5.0.0
make build
```
Ensure the `regen` binary has been updated:

```bash
cd regen-ledger/build
./regen version
```

You should see the following:

```bash
v5.0.0
```

When the chain halts at the proposed upgrade height, stop the current process running `regen`.

Restart the process running `regen`.
