docs/validators/get-started/run-a-full-node.md, before:

# Run a Full Node

This document provides instructions for running a full node for a [live network](../../ledger/get-started/live-networks.md) (either Regen Mainnet, Redwood Testnet, or Hambach Testnet).

## Prerequisites

In order to install the `cosmovisor` and `regen` binaries, you'll need the following: 

- Git `>=2`
- Make `>=4`
- Go `>=1.17`

For more information (including hardware recommendations), see [Prerequisites](prerequisites.md). 

## Quickstart

If you would like to manually set up a full node, skip to the [next section](#install-regen). Alternatively, you can run the following quickstart script:

```bash
bash <(curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/regen-network/mainnet/blob/main/scripts/mainnet-val-setup.sh)
```

## Install Regen

Clone the `regen-ledger` repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/regen-network/regen-ledger
```

Change to the `regen-ledger` directory:

```bash
cd regen-ledger
```

Check out the version that the network launched with.

*For Regen Mainnet:*

```bash
git checkout v1.0.0
```

*For Redwood Testnet:*

```bash
git checkout v1.0.0
```

*For Hambach Testnet:*

```bash
git checkout v2.0.0-beta1
```

Install the `regen` binary (the `EXPERIMENTAL` option enables experimental features).

*For Regen Mainnet:*

```bash
make install
```

*For Redwood Testnet:*

```bash
make install
```

*For Hambach Testnet:*

```bash
EXPERIMENTAL=true make install
```

Check to ensure the install was successful:

```bash
regen version
```

## Initialize Node

Create the configuration files and data directory by initializing the node. In the following command, replace `[moniker]` with a name of your choice. 

*For Regen Mainnet:*

```bash
regen init [moniker] --chain-id regen-1
```

*For Redwood Testnet:*

```bash
regen init [moniker] --chain-id regen-redwood-1
```

*For Hambach Testnet:*

```bash
regen init [moniker] --chain-id regen-hambach-1
```

## Update Genesis

Update the genesis file.

<!-- TODO: update to use dedicated full node operated by RND -->

*For Regen Mainnet:*

```bash
curl http://mainnet.regen.network:26657/genesis | jq .result.genesis > ~/.regen/config/genesis.json
```

*For Redwood Testnet:*

```bash
curl http://redwood.regen.network:26657/genesis | jq .result.genesis > ~/.regen/config/genesis.json
```

*For Hambach Testnet:*

```bash
curl http://hambach.regen.network:26657/genesis | jq .result.genesis > ~/.regen/config/genesis.json
```

## Update Peers

Add a seed node for initial peer discovery.

<!-- TODO: update to use dedicated full node operated by RND -->

*For Regen Mainnet:*

```bash
PERSISTENT_PEERS="c4460b52c34ad4f12168d05807e998bb8e8b4812@mainnet.regen.network:26656,aebb8431609cb126a977592446f5de252d8b7fa1@regen.rpc.vitwit.com:26656"
sed -i '/persistent_peers =/c\persistent_peers = "'"$PERSISTENT_PEERS"'"' ~/.regen/config/config.toml
```

*For Redwood Testnet:*

```bash
PERSISTENT_PEERS="d5ceac343e48c7522c3a5a8c0cf5cb896d1f8a60@redwood.regen.network:26656,61f53f226a4a71968a87583f58902405e289b4b9@redwood-sentry.vitwit.com:26656"
sed -i '/persistent_peers =/c\persistent_peers = "'"$PERSISTENT_PEERS"'"' ~/.regen/config/config.toml
```

*For Hambach Testnet:*

```bash
PERSISTENT_PEERS="4f5c0be7705bf4acb5b99dcaf93190059ac283a1@hambach.regen.network:26656,578b74c81f08a812b5f1a76a53b00a8ad3cfec57@hambach-sentry.vitwit.com:26656"
sed -i '/persistent_peers =/c\persistent_peers = "'"$PERSISTENT_PEERS"'"' ~/.regen/config/config.toml
```

## Start Node

At this point, the node is ready. If you do not need to run a dedicated full node in a separate process, you can start the node using the `regen` binary.

Start node:

```bash
regen start
```

## Install Cosmovisor

[Cosmovisor](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/tree/master/cosmovisor) is a process manager for running application binaries. Using Cosmovisor is not required but recommended for node operators that would like to automate the upgrade process.

To install `cosmovisor`, run the following command:

```bash
go install github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/cosmovisor/cmd/cosmovisor@v1.0
```

Check to ensure the installation was successful:

```bash
cosmovisor version
```

## Set Genesis Binary

Create the folder for the genesis binary and copy the `regen` binary:

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/.regen/cosmovisor/genesis/bin
cp $GOBIN/regen $HOME/.regen/cosmovisor/genesis/bin
```

## Cosmovisor Service

The next step will be to configure `cosmovisor` as a `systemd` service. For more information about the environment variables used to configure `cosmovisor`, see [Cosmovisor](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/tree/master/cosmovisor).

Create the `cosmovisor.service` file:

```bash
echo "[Unit]
Description=Cosmovisor daemon
After=network-online.target
[Service]
Environment="DAEMON_NAME=regen"
Environment="DAEMON_HOME=${HOME}/.regen"
Environment="DAEMON_RESTART_AFTER_UPGRADE=true"
Environment="DAEMON_ALLOW_DOWNLOAD_BINARIES=false"
Environment="UNSAFE_SKIP_BACKUP=false"
User=${USER}
ExecStart=${GOBIN}/cosmovisor start
Restart=always
RestartSec=3
LimitNOFILE=4096
[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
" >cosmovisor.service
```

Move the file to the systemd directory:

```bash
sudo mv cosmovisor.service /lib/systemd/system/cosmovisor.service
```

Reload systemctl and start `cosmovisor`:

```bash
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl start cosmovisor
```

Check the status of the `cosmovisor` service:

```bash
sudo systemctl status cosmovisor
```

Enable cosmovisor to start automatically when the machine reboots:

```bash
sudo systemctl enable cosmovisor.service
```

## Prepare Upgrade

The next step will be to [create a validator](create-a-validator.md) and prepare your node for the [upgrade process](../migrations/upgrade.md).

Commit message:

Added instrusctions to execute statesync script

docs/validators/get-started/run-a-full-node.md, after:

# Run a Full Node

This document provides instructions for running a full node for a [live network](../../ledger/get-started/live-networks.md) (either Regen Mainnet, Redwood Testnet, or Hambach Testnet).

## Prerequisites

In order to install the `cosmovisor` and `regen` binaries, you'll need the following: 

- Git `>=2`
- Make `>=4`
- Go `>=1.17`

For more information (including hardware recommendations), see [Prerequisites](prerequisites.md). 

## Quickstart

If you would like to manually set up a full node, skip to the [next section](#install-regen). Alternatively, you can run the following quickstart script:

```bash
bash <(curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/regen-network/mainnet/blob/main/scripts/mainnet-val-setup.sh)
```

## Install Regen

Clone the `regen-ledger` repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/regen-network/regen-ledger
```

Change to the `regen-ledger` directory:

```bash
cd regen-ledger
```

Check out the version that the network launched with.

*For Regen Mainnet:*

```bash
git checkout v1.0.0
```

*For Redwood Testnet:*

```bash
git checkout v1.0.0
```

*For Hambach Testnet:*

```bash
git checkout v2.0.0-beta1
```

Install the `regen` binary (the `EXPERIMENTAL` option enables experimental features).

*For Regen Mainnet:*

```bash
make install
```

*For Redwood Testnet:*

```bash
make install
```

*For Hambach Testnet:*

```bash
EXPERIMENTAL=true make install
```

Check to ensure the install was successful:

```bash
regen version
```

## Initialize Node

Create the configuration files and data directory by initializing the node. In the following command, replace `[moniker]` with a name of your choice. 

*For Regen Mainnet:*

```bash
regen init [moniker] --chain-id regen-1
```

*For Redwood Testnet:*

```bash
regen init [moniker] --chain-id regen-redwood-1
```

*For Hambach Testnet:*

```bash
regen init [moniker] --chain-id regen-hambach-1
```

## Update Genesis

Update the genesis file.

<!-- TODO: update to use dedicated full node operated by RND -->

*For Regen Mainnet:*

```bash
curl http://mainnet.regen.network:26657/genesis | jq .result.genesis > ~/.regen/config/genesis.json
```

*For Redwood Testnet:*

```bash
curl http://redwood.regen.network:26657/genesis | jq .result.genesis > ~/.regen/config/genesis.json
```

*For Hambach Testnet:*

```bash
curl http://hambach.regen.network:26657/genesis | jq .result.genesis > ~/.regen/config/genesis.json
```

## Update Peers

Add a seed node for initial peer discovery.

<!-- TODO: update to use dedicated full node operated by RND -->

*For Regen Mainnet:*

```bash
PERSISTENT_PEERS="c4460b52c34ad4f12168d05807e998bb8e8b4812@mainnet.regen.network:26656,aebb8431609cb126a977592446f5de252d8b7fa1@regen.rpc.vitwit.com:26656"
sed -i '/persistent_peers =/c\persistent_peers = "'"$PERSISTENT_PEERS"'"' ~/.regen/config/config.toml
```

*For Redwood Testnet:*

```bash
PERSISTENT_PEERS="d5ceac343e48c7522c3a5a8c0cf5cb896d1f8a60@redwood.regen.network:26656,61f53f226a4a71968a87583f58902405e289b4b9@redwood-sentry.vitwit.com:26656"
sed -i '/persistent_peers =/c\persistent_peers = "'"$PERSISTENT_PEERS"'"' ~/.regen/config/config.toml
```

*For Hambach Testnet:*

```bash
PERSISTENT_PEERS="4f5c0be7705bf4acb5b99dcaf93190059ac283a1@hambach.regen.network:26656,578b74c81f08a812b5f1a76a53b00a8ad3cfec57@hambach-sentry.vitwit.com:26656"
sed -i '/persistent_peers =/c\persistent_peers = "'"$PERSISTENT_PEERS"'"' ~/.regen/config/config.toml
```

## Start Node

At this point, the node is ready. If you do not need to run a dedicated full node in a separate process, you can start the node using the `regen` binary.

Start node:

```bash
regen start
```

## Install Cosmovisor

[Cosmovisor](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/tree/master/cosmovisor) is a process manager for running application binaries. Using Cosmovisor is not required but recommended for node operators that would like to automate the upgrade process.

To install `cosmovisor`, run the following command:

```bash
go install github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/cosmovisor/cmd/cosmovisor@v1.0
```

Check to ensure the installation was successful:

```bash
cosmovisor version
```

## Set Genesis Binary

Create the folder for the genesis binary and copy the `regen` binary:

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/.regen/cosmovisor/genesis/bin
cp $GOBIN/regen $HOME/.regen/cosmovisor/genesis/bin
```

## Cosmovisor Service

The next step will be to configure `cosmovisor` as a `systemd` service. For more information about the environment variables used to configure `cosmovisor`, see [Cosmovisor](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/tree/master/cosmovisor).

Create the `cosmovisor.service` file:

```bash
echo "[Unit]
Description=Cosmovisor daemon
After=network-online.target
[Service]
Environment="DAEMON_NAME=regen"
Environment="DAEMON_HOME=${HOME}/.regen"
Environment="DAEMON_RESTART_AFTER_UPGRADE=true"
Environment="DAEMON_ALLOW_DOWNLOAD_BINARIES=false"
Environment="UNSAFE_SKIP_BACKUP=false"
User=${USER}
ExecStart=${GOBIN}/cosmovisor start
Restart=always
RestartSec=3
LimitNOFILE=4096
[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
" >cosmovisor.service
```

Move the file to the systemd directory:

```bash
sudo mv cosmovisor.service /lib/systemd/system/cosmovisor.service
```

Reload systemctl and start `cosmovisor`:

```bash
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl start cosmovisor
```

Check the status of the `cosmovisor` service:

```bash
sudo systemctl status cosmovisor
```

Enable cosmovisor to start automatically when the machine reboots:

```bash
sudo systemctl enable cosmovisor.service
```
## Using StateSync

Mainnet of Regen Network also supports [statesync](https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.44/architecture/adr-040-storage-and-smt-state-commitments.html#snapshots-for-storage-sync-and-state-versioning) which allows node operators to quickly spin up a node without downloading the existing chain data. It should be noted that not many nodes should be spun up on the network using this method as these nodes will be unable to propogate the historical data to other nodes.

Download and execute the script:
```bash 
export MONIKER=<your-node-moniker>
curl -s -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/regen-network/regen-ledger/master/scripts/statesync.bash | bash
```

## Prepare Upgrade

The next step will be to [create a validator](create-a-validator.md) and prepare your node for the [upgrade process](../migrations/upgrade.md).
