docs/ledger/migrations/v4.0-migration.md, before:

# Migration Guide v4.0

## API Changes

### cosmos

Regen Ledger v4.0 does not include a cosmos-sdk update and therefore there are no changes to the API for cosmos-sdk modules.

### regen.data

Regen Ledger v4.0 introduces [regen.data.v1](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1).

### regen.ecocredit

Regen Ledger v4.0 migrates from [regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1) to [regen.ecocredit.v1](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1).

#### Msg Service

- [v1alpha1.MsgCancel](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgCancel) → [v1.MsgCancel](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgCancel)

  - added `reason`
  - updated `holder` to `owner`
  - updated `MsgCancel.CancelCredits` to `Credits` (see types)

- [v1alpha1.MsgCancelResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgCancelResponse) → [v1.MsgCancelResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgCancelResponse)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.MsgCreateBatch](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgCreateBatch) → [v1.MsgCreateBatch](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgCreateBatch)

  - added `project_id`
  - added `open`
  - added `origin_tx`
  - added `note`
  - removed `class_id`
  - removed `project_location`
  - updated `MsgCreateBatch.BatchIssuance` to `BatchIssuance` (see types)
  - updated `metadata` from `bytes` to `string`

- [v1alpha1.MsgCreateBatchResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgCreateBatchResponse) → [v1.MsgCreateBatchResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgCreateBatchResponse)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.Msg.CreateClass](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.Msg.CreateClass) → [v1.Msg.CreateClass](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.Msg.CreateClass)

  - added `fee`
  - updated `metadata` from `bytes` to `string`
  - updated `credit_type_name` from `credit_type_abbrev`

- [v1alpha1.MsgCreateClassResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgCreateClassResponse) → [v1.MsgCreateClassResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgCreateClassResponse)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.MsgRetire](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgRetire) → [v1.MsgRetire](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgRetire)

  - updated `holder` to `owner`
  - updated `location` to `jurisdiction`
  - updated `MsgRetire.RetireCredits` to `Credits` (see types)

- [v1alpha1.MsgRetireResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgRetireResponse) → [v1.MsgRetireResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgRetireResponse)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.MsgSend](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgSend) → [v1.MsgSend](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgSend)

  - updated `MsgSend.SendCredits` (see types)

- [v1alpha1.MsgSendResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgSendResponse) → [v1.MsgSendResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgSendResponse)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassAdmin](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassAdmin) → [v1.MsgUpdateClassAdmin](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgUpdateClassAdmin)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassAdminResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassAdminResponse) → [v1.MsgUpdateClassAdminResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgUpdateClassAdminResponse)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassIssuers](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassIssuers) → [v1.MsgUpdateClassIssuers](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgUpdateClassIssuers)

  - added `add_issuers`
  - added `remove_issuers`
  - removed `issuers`

- [v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassIssuersResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassIssuersResponse) → [v1.MsgUpdateClassIssuersResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgUpdateClassIssuersResponse)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassMetadata](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassMetadata) → [v1.MsgUpdateClassMetadata](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgUpdateClassMetadata)

  - updated `metadata` to `new_metadata`

- [v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassMetadataResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassMetadataResponse) → [v1.MsgUpdateClassMetadataResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgUpdateClassMetadataResponse)

  - no changes

#### Query Service

- [v1alpha1.QueryBalanceRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryBalanceRequest) → [v1.QueryBalanceRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QueryBalanceRequest)

  - updated `account` to `address`

- [v1alpha1.QueryBalanceResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryBalanceResponse) → [v1.QueryBalanceResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QueryBalanceResponse)

  - added `balance` with type [regen.ecocredit.v1.BatchBalanceInfo](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.BatchBalanceInfo)
  - removed `tradable_amount`
  - removed `retired_amount`

- [v1alpha1.QueryBatchesRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryBatchesRequest) → [v1.QueryBatchesByClassRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QueryBatchesByClassRequest)

  - name change
  - no changes to fields

- [v1alpha1.QueryBatchesResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryBatchesResponse) → [v1.QueryBatchesByClassResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QueryBatchesByClassResponse)

  - name change
  - updated `BatchInfo` (see types)

- [v1alpha1.QueryBatchInfoRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryBatchInfoRequest) → [v1.QueryBatchRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QueryBatchRequest)

  - name change
  - no changes to fields

- [v1alpha1.QueryBatchInfoResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryBatchInfoResponse) → [v1.QueryBatchResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QueryBatchResponse)

  - name change
  - updated `info` to `batch`
  - updated `BatchInfo` (see types)

- [v1alpha1.QueryClassesRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryClassesRequest) → [v1.QueryClassesRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QueryClassesRequest)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.QueryClassesResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryClassesResponse) → [v1.QueryClassesResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QueryClassesResponse)

  - updated `ClassInfo` (see types)

- [v1alpha1.QueryClassInfoRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryClassInfoRequest) → [v1.Query.Class](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.Query.Class)

  - name change
  - no changes to fields

- [v1alpha1.QueryClassInfoRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryClassInfoRequest) → [v1.Query.Class](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.Query.Class)

  - name change
  - updated `ClassInfo` (see types)

- [v1alpha1.QueryCreditTypesRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryCreditTypesRequest) → [v1.QueryCreditTypesRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QueryCreditTypesRequest)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.QueryCreditTypesResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryCreditTypesResponse) → [v1.QueryCreditTypesResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QueryCreditTypesResponse)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.QuerySupplyRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QuerySupplyRequest) → [v1.QuerySupplyRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QuerySupplyRequest)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.QuerySupplyResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QuerySupplyResponse) → [v1.QuerySupplyResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QuerySupplyResponse)

  - added `cancelled_amount`
  - updated `tradable_supply` to `tradable_amount`
  - updated `retired_supply` to `retired_amount`

#### Types

- [v1alpha1.BatchInfo](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.BatchInfo) → [v1.BatchInfo](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.BatchInfo)

  - added `project_id`
  - added `issuance_date`
  - added `open`
  - removed `class_id`
  - removed `total_amount`
  - removed `amount_cancelled`
  - removed `project_location`
  - updated `batch_denom` to `denom`
  - updated `metadata` from `bytes` to `string`

- [v1alpha1.MsgCancel.CancelCredits](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgCancel.CancelCredits) → [v1.Credits](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.Credits)

  - scope and name change
  - no changes to fields

- [v1alpha1.ClassInfo](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.ClassInfo) → [v1.ClassInfo](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.ClassInfo)

  - added `credit_type_abbrev`
  - removed `issuers`
  - removed `credit_type`
  - removed `num_batches`
  - updated `class_id` to `id`
  - updated `metadata` from `bytes` to `string`

- [v1alpha1.MsgCreateBatch.BatchIssuance](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgCreateBatch.BatchIssuance) → [v1.BatchIssuance](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.BatchIssuance)

  - scope change
  - updated `retirement_location` to `retirement_jurisdiction`

- [v1alpha1.MsgRetire.RetireCredits](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgRetire.RetireCredits) → [v1.Credits](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.Credits)

  - scope and name change
  - no changes to fields

- [v1alpha1.MsgSend.SendCredits](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgSend.SendCredits) → [v1.MsgSend.SendCredits](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgSend.SendCredits)

  - updated `retirement_location` to `retirement_jurisdiction`

#### Events

- [v1alpha1.EventCancel](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.EventCancel) → [v1.EventCancel](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.EventCancel)

  - added `reason`
  - updated `canceller` to `owner`

- [v1alpha1.EventCreateBatch](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.EventCreateBatch) → [v1.EventCreateBatch](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.EventCreateBatch)

  - added `origin_tx`
  - removed `class_id`
  - removed `issuer`
  - removed `total_amount` (see [v1.EventMint](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.EventMint))
  - removed `start_date`
  - removed `end_date`
  - removed `project_location`

- [v1alpha1.EventCreateClass](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.EventCreateClass) → [v1.EventCreateClass](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.EventCreateClass)

  - removed `admin`

- [v1alpha1.EventRetire](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.EventRetire) → [v1.EventRetire](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.EventRetire)

  - updated `retirer` to `owner`
  - updated `location` to `jurisdiction`

### regen.ecocredit.basket

Regen Ledger v4.0 includes non-breaking changes to [regen.basket.v1](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1).

#### Msg Service

- [v1.MsgCreate](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.MsgCreate)

  - deprecated `exponent`
  - updated `DateCriteria` (see types)

- [v1.MsgCreateResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.MsgCreateResponse)

  - no changes

- [v1.MsgPut](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.MsgPut)

  - no changes

- [v1.MsgPutResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.MsgPutResponse)

  - no changes

- [v1.MsgTake](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.MsgTake)

  - added `retirement_jurisdiction`
  - deprecated `retirement_location`

- [v1.MsgTakeResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.MsgTakeResponse)

  - no changes

#### Query Service

- [v1.QueryBasketRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.QueryBasketRequest)

  - no changes

- [v1.QueryBasketResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.QueryBasketResponse)

  - added `basket_info` (will be renamed to `basket` in next version)
  - deprecated `basket`

- [v1.QueryBasketsRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.QueryBasketsRequest)

  - no changes

- [v1.QueryBasketsResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.QueryBasketsResponse)

  - added `baskets_info` (will be renamed to `baskets` in next version)
  - deprecated `baskets`

- [v1.QueryBasketBalanceRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.QueryBasketBalanceRequest)

  - no changes

- [v1.QueryBasketBalanceResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.QueryBasketBalanceResponse)

  - added `balances_info` (will be renamed to `balances` in next version)
  - deprecated `balances`

#### Types

- [v1.DateCriteria](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.DateCriteria)

  - added `years_in_the_past`

#### Events

- [v1.EventCreate](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.EventCreate)

- deprecated `curator`

- [v1.EventPut](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.EventPut)

- deprecated `credits`
- deprecated `amount`

- [v1.EventTake](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.EventTake)

- deprecated `credits`
- deprecated `amount`

### regen.ecocredit.marketplace

Regen Ledger v4.0 introduces [regen.ecocredit.marketplace.v1](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.marketplace.v1).

Commit message:

add event receive to transfer

docs/ledger/migrations/v4.0-migration.md, after:

# Migration Guide v4.0

## API Changes

### cosmos

Regen Ledger v4.0 does not include an updated version of Cosmos SDK and therefore there are no changes to the API for Cosmos SDK modules.

### regen.data

Regen Ledger v4.0 introduces [regen.data.v1](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1).

### regen.ecocredit

Regen Ledger v4.0 migrates from [regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1) to [regen.ecocredit.v1](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1).

#### Msg Service

- [v1alpha1.MsgCancel](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgCancel) → [v1.MsgCancel](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgCancel)

  - added `reason`
  - updated `holder` to `owner`
  - updated `MsgCancel.CancelCredits` to `Credits` (see types)

- [v1alpha1.MsgCancelResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgCancelResponse) → [v1.MsgCancelResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgCancelResponse)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.MsgCreateBatch](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgCreateBatch) → [v1.MsgCreateBatch](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgCreateBatch)

  - added `project_id`
  - added `open`
  - added `origin_tx`
  - added `note`
  - removed `class_id`
  - removed `project_location`
  - updated `MsgCreateBatch.BatchIssuance` to `BatchIssuance` (see types)
  - updated `metadata` from `bytes` to `string`

- [v1alpha1.MsgCreateBatchResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgCreateBatchResponse) → [v1.MsgCreateBatchResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgCreateBatchResponse)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.Msg.CreateClass](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.Msg.CreateClass) → [v1.Msg.CreateClass](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.Msg.CreateClass)

  - added `fee`
  - updated `metadata` from `bytes` to `string`
  - updated `credit_type_name` from `credit_type_abbrev`

- [v1alpha1.MsgCreateClassResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgCreateClassResponse) → [v1.MsgCreateClassResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgCreateClassResponse)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.MsgRetire](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgRetire) → [v1.MsgRetire](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgRetire)

  - updated `holder` to `owner`
  - updated `location` to `jurisdiction`
  - updated `MsgRetire.RetireCredits` to `Credits` (see types)

- [v1alpha1.MsgRetireResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgRetireResponse) → [v1.MsgRetireResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgRetireResponse)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.MsgSend](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgSend) → [v1.MsgSend](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgSend)

  - updated `MsgSend.SendCredits` (see types)

- [v1alpha1.MsgSendResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgSendResponse) → [v1.MsgSendResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgSendResponse)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassAdmin](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassAdmin) → [v1.MsgUpdateClassAdmin](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgUpdateClassAdmin)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassAdminResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassAdminResponse) → [v1.MsgUpdateClassAdminResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgUpdateClassAdminResponse)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassIssuers](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassIssuers) → [v1.MsgUpdateClassIssuers](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgUpdateClassIssuers)

  - added `add_issuers`
  - added `remove_issuers`
  - removed `issuers`

- [v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassIssuersResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassIssuersResponse) → [v1.MsgUpdateClassIssuersResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgUpdateClassIssuersResponse)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassMetadata](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassMetadata) → [v1.MsgUpdateClassMetadata](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgUpdateClassMetadata)

  - updated `metadata` to `new_metadata`

- [v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassMetadataResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgUpdateClassMetadataResponse) → [v1.MsgUpdateClassMetadataResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgUpdateClassMetadataResponse)

  - no changes

#### Query Service

- [v1alpha1.QueryBalanceRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryBalanceRequest) → [v1.QueryBalanceRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QueryBalanceRequest)

  - updated `account` to `address`

- [v1alpha1.QueryBalanceResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryBalanceResponse) → [v1.QueryBalanceResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QueryBalanceResponse)

  - added `balance` with type [regen.ecocredit.v1.BatchBalanceInfo](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.BatchBalanceInfo)
  - removed `tradable_amount`
  - removed `retired_amount`

- [v1alpha1.QueryBatchesRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryBatchesRequest) → [v1.QueryBatchesByClassRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QueryBatchesByClassRequest)

  - name change
  - no changes to fields

- [v1alpha1.QueryBatchesResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryBatchesResponse) → [v1.QueryBatchesByClassResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QueryBatchesByClassResponse)

  - name change
  - updated `BatchInfo` (see types)

- [v1alpha1.QueryBatchInfoRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryBatchInfoRequest) → [v1.QueryBatchRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QueryBatchRequest)

  - name change
  - no changes to fields

- [v1alpha1.QueryBatchInfoResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryBatchInfoResponse) → [v1.QueryBatchResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QueryBatchResponse)

  - name change
  - updated `info` to `batch`
  - updated `BatchInfo` (see types)

- [v1alpha1.QueryClassesRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryClassesRequest) → [v1.QueryClassesRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QueryClassesRequest)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.QueryClassesResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryClassesResponse) → [v1.QueryClassesResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QueryClassesResponse)

  - updated `ClassInfo` (see types)

- [v1alpha1.QueryClassInfoRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryClassInfoRequest) → [v1.Query.Class](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.Query.Class)

  - name change
  - no changes to fields

- [v1alpha1.QueryClassInfoRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryClassInfoRequest) → [v1.Query.Class](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.Query.Class)

  - name change
  - updated `ClassInfo` (see types)

- [v1alpha1.QueryCreditTypesRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryCreditTypesRequest) → [v1.QueryCreditTypesRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QueryCreditTypesRequest)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.QueryCreditTypesResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QueryCreditTypesResponse) → [v1.QueryCreditTypesResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QueryCreditTypesResponse)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.QuerySupplyRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QuerySupplyRequest) → [v1.QuerySupplyRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QuerySupplyRequest)

  - no changes

- [v1alpha1.QuerySupplyResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.QuerySupplyResponse) → [v1.QuerySupplyResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.QuerySupplyResponse)

  - added `cancelled_amount`
  - updated `tradable_supply` to `tradable_amount`
  - updated `retired_supply` to `retired_amount`

#### Types

- [v1alpha1.BatchInfo](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.BatchInfo) → [v1.BatchInfo](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.BatchInfo)

  - added `project_id`
  - added `issuance_date`
  - added `open`
  - removed `class_id`
  - removed `total_amount`
  - removed `amount_cancelled`
  - removed `project_location`
  - updated `batch_denom` to `denom`
  - updated `metadata` from `bytes` to `string`

- [v1alpha1.MsgCancel.CancelCredits](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgCancel.CancelCredits) → [v1.Credits](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.Credits)

  - scope and name change
  - no changes to fields

- [v1alpha1.ClassInfo](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.ClassInfo) → [v1.ClassInfo](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.ClassInfo)

  - added `credit_type_abbrev`
  - removed `issuers`
  - removed `credit_type`
  - removed `num_batches`
  - updated `class_id` to `id`
  - updated `metadata` from `bytes` to `string`

- [v1alpha1.MsgCreateBatch.BatchIssuance](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgCreateBatch.BatchIssuance) → [v1.BatchIssuance](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.BatchIssuance)

  - scope change
  - updated `retirement_location` to `retirement_jurisdiction`

- [v1alpha1.MsgRetire.RetireCredits](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgRetire.RetireCredits) → [v1.Credits](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.Credits)

  - scope and name change
  - no changes to fields

- [v1alpha1.MsgSend.SendCredits](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.MsgSend.SendCredits) → [v1.MsgSend.SendCredits](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.MsgSend.SendCredits)

  - updated `retirement_location` to `retirement_jurisdiction`

#### Events

- [v1alpha1.EventCancel](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.EventCancel) → [v1.EventCancel](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.EventCancel)

  - added `reason`
  - updated `canceller` to `owner`

- [v1alpha1.EventCreateBatch](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.EventCreateBatch) → [v1.EventCreateBatch](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.EventCreateBatch)

  - added `origin_tx`
  - removed `class_id`
  - removed `issuer`
  - removed `total_amount` (see [v1.EventMint](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.EventMint))
  - removed `start_date`
  - removed `end_date`
  - removed `project_location`

- [v1alpha1.EventCreateClass](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.EventCreateClass) → [v1.EventCreateClass](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.EventCreateClass)

  - removed `admin`

- [v1alpha1.EventReceive](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.EventReceive) → [v1.EventTransfer](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.EventTransfer)

  - name change
  - removed `basket_denom`

- [v1alpha1.EventRetire](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1#regen.ecocredit.v1alpha1.EventRetire) → [v1.EventRetire](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.v1#regen.ecocredit.v1.EventRetire)

  - updated `retirer` to `owner`
  - updated `location` to `jurisdiction`

### regen.ecocredit.basket

Regen Ledger v4.0 includes non-breaking changes to [regen.basket.v1](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1).

#### Msg Service

- [v1.MsgCreate](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.MsgCreate)

  - deprecated `exponent`
  - updated `DateCriteria` (see types)

- [v1.MsgCreateResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.MsgCreateResponse)

  - no changes

- [v1.MsgPut](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.MsgPut)

  - no changes

- [v1.MsgPutResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.MsgPutResponse)

  - no changes

- [v1.MsgTake](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.MsgTake)

  - added `retirement_jurisdiction`
  - deprecated `retirement_location`

- [v1.MsgTakeResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.MsgTakeResponse)

  - no changes

#### Query Service

- [v1.QueryBasketRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.QueryBasketRequest)

  - no changes

- [v1.QueryBasketResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.QueryBasketResponse)

  - added `basket_info` (will be renamed to `basket` in next version)
  - deprecated `basket`

- [v1.QueryBasketsRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.QueryBasketsRequest)

  - no changes

- [v1.QueryBasketsResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.QueryBasketsResponse)

  - added `baskets_info` (will be renamed to `baskets` in next version)
  - deprecated `baskets`

- [v1.QueryBasketBalanceRequest](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.QueryBasketBalanceRequest)

  - no changes

- [v1.QueryBasketBalanceResponse](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.QueryBasketBalanceResponse)

  - added `balances_info` (will be renamed to `balances` in next version)
  - deprecated `balances`

#### Types

- [v1.DateCriteria](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.DateCriteria)

  - added `years_in_the_past`

#### Events

- [v1.EventCreate](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.EventCreate)

- deprecated `curator`

- [v1.EventPut](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.EventPut)

- deprecated `credits`
- deprecated `amount`

- [v1.EventTake](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.basket.v1#regen.ecocredit.basket.v1.EventTake)

- deprecated `credits`
- deprecated `amount`

### regen.ecocredit.marketplace

Regen Ledger v4.0 introduces [regen.ecocredit.marketplace.v1](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.ecocredit.marketplace.v1).
