x/data/spec/04_queries.md, before:

# Query Service

The data module provides a query service for querying the state of the data module. The queries are defined in the proto files available on [Buf Schema Registry](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1).

For examples on how to query state using gRPC and REST, see the [data client](07_client.md) documentation, and for examples using the `regen` binary, see [regen query data](../../commands/regen_query_data.html).

<!-- listed alphabetically -->

- [AttestorsByHash](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.AttestorsByHash)
- [AttestorsByIRI](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.AttestorsByIRI)
- [ByAttestor](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.ByAttestor)
- [ByHash](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.ByHash)
- [ByIRI](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.ByIRI)
- [HashByIRI](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.HashByIRI)
- [IRIByGraphHash](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.IRIByGraphHash)
- [IRIByHash](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.IRIByHash)
- [IRIByRawHash](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.IRIByRawHash)
- [Resolver](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.Resolver)
- [ResolversByIRI](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.ResolversByIRI)
- [ResolversByHash](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.ResolversByHash)
- [ResolversByUrl](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.ResolversByUrl)

Commit message:

refactor(x/data): update query service and commands (#1156)
* refactor(x/data): descriptive api naming and endpoints

* refactor(x/data): descriptive api naming and endpoints

* refactor(x/data): descriptive api naming and endpoints

* refactor(x/data): descriptive api naming and endpoints

* refactor(x/data): descriptive api naming and endpoints

* refactor(x/data): descriptive api naming and endpoints

* revise anchor entry and attestor entry

* fix proto lint and add timestamp check

* clean up proto comment and imports

* revise naming and integration tests

* revise comments and server tests

* revise comments and server tests

* revise comments and server tests

* add missing query commands and revise comments

* separate files for each query method

* add unit tests and clean up integration tests

* consistent naming and clean up

* update specification and clean up

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Tyler <48813565+technicallyty@users.noreply.github.com>

* close iterators and add pagination flags

Co-authored-by: Tyler <48813565+technicallyty@users.noreply.github.com>

x/data/spec/04_queries.md, after:

# Query Service

The data module provides a query service for querying the state of the data module. The queries are defined in the proto files available on [Buf Schema Registry](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1).

For examples on how to query state using gRPC and REST, see the [data client](07_client.md) documentation, and for examples using the `regen` binary, see [regen query data](../../commands/regen_query_data.html).

<!-- listed alphabetically -->

- [AnchorByHash](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.AnchorByHash)
- [AnchorByIRI](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.AnchorByIRI)
- [AttestationsByAttestor](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.AttestationsByAttestor)
- [AttestationsByHash](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.AttestationsByHash)
- [AttestationsByIRI](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.AttestationsByIRI)
- [ConvertHashToIRI](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.ConvertHashToIRI)
- [ConvertIRIToHash](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.ConvertIRIToHash)
- [Resolver](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.Resolver)
- [ResolversByIRI](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.ResolversByIRI)
- [ResolversByHash](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.ResolversByHash)
- [ResolversByURL](https://buf.build/regen/regen-ledger/docs/main:regen.data.v1#regen.data.v1.Query.ResolversByURL)
